In this application, we get a couple of classes - product item, product list and also shopping cart and
what they all have in common is that they have a render method and in that render method, we do different
things but we always create a new element,
we then add stuff to that element, for example with innerHTML,
we then return that element.
Now we duplicate that logic,
of course the exact configuration, for example the class name and the tag, that differs
but the general logic always is the same.
So whilst we do have different logic for what we then add to this element, the creation and configuration
basically as I just said multiple times is the same and in such cases, we can use a concept called inheritance,
which we can use in many programming languages and Javascript is no exception, to conveniently share
code amongst classes.
Now let's explore that concept.
The idea behind inheritance is that we have some base class, let's say a post if we're building a social
network, which holds a couple of properties and/or methods,
in this example three properties, which we also need in other classes. Let's say we have a specialized
version of that post which is an image post which also has all these properties but also in addition
has an imageUrl and an image description and then we also have another specialized version of a
post you can make, a video post which also has title, text and creatorId but which then also needs a video
URL and let's say a rating regarding the age you've got to have to watch the video. So we can of
course build multiple classes but that's suboptimal because we duplicate a lot of code, all that purple
code - title, text, creatorId, these properties we duplicate them all the time.
So instead it would be nice if you could extend that base class and of course you can do that in Javascript
and therefore inherit all that purple stuff. So you can extend that class and then you get this shared
purple content automatically in the specialized classes and you can still add your old extra properties
or logic in these subclasses here,
you can also override things shared in the base class if you would want to do that. And now that's something
we can utilize here,
this concept of inheritance is something we can utilize here in our project as well.